Tham khaor: 
1. https://www.projectmanager.com/blog/production-scheduling
2. Assembly Line Scheduling (https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/assembly-line-scheduling-dp-34/)
3. https://timefold.ai/model/job-shop-scheduling

Production Scheduling Basics: Creating a Production Schedule
A production schedule is a plan that helps facilitate the process of delivering products to customers and the marketplace. It’s part of the larger supply chain in manufacturing and includes everything from procurement of raw materials and labor and logistics to the costs involved and a production timeframe.
Manufacturers need to address production scheduling before they begin the manufacturing process. This might sound obvious, but production scheduling informs the costs involved in producing a product, such as the production itself and labor. Therefore, financial resources must be allocated for every step in your production cycle.
1. It’s essential to consider when to introduce your product to the marketplace. You want to do so quickly without negatively impacting quality, so many work backward from a deadline. That means understanding how long production will take and the timeline to transport finished goods to distributors. This requires balancing resources to have what you need when you need it.
Production Scheduling Process
To balance production orders with the availability of resources in a cost-effective manner, manufacturers apply the production scheduling process to their production facilities. It provides a better way to allocate resources, operations and processes when creating goods and services.
By following the steps below, manufacturers can adjust their production scheduling to reflect resource availability and client orders. However, your production schedule must be accurate in terms of the resources available to reap the benefits of production scheduling.

1.1. Production Planning
Everything rests on this step. Here, you’ll figure out the course of the entire production. Managers will look over production budgets, a demand plan, and the number of raw materials that will be required. There are two types of plans, static and dynamic, the former thinking that everything will follow the plan’s timeline and the latter believes everything can change. The dynamic plan is recommended as change is part of any execution of a plan.
1. 2. Production Routing
Now with the plan done, you’ll want to determine the path the production will follow. This is routing. That is, how the raw materials are procured and then made into a finished product. The idea behind production routing is to determine the more economical sequence of operations in the production process.
1.3. Production Scheduling
This is when you determine the date and time that the production operation must be completed. There are three types of production scheduling, master scheduling (which defines the entire process from start to finish), manufacturing or operation scheduling (for routing raw materials) and retail operation scheduling (to get the finished product from the manufacturing facility to stores). You’ll want to include a contingency plan to respond to issues that negatively impact your schedule.
1.4. Dispatching & Execution
Once you’ve scheduled production, it’s time to share the plan with everyone involved. Assign the order of jobs, instructions and other production information that’s important for execution. Execution is when staff works together to ensure that the sequence of the production schedule is followed and deliverables meet deadlines. This means monitoring and removing bottlenecks that might delay production orders.

2. What Is a Production Schedule?
A production schedule is an integral part of production scheduling. The production schedule is a list of all the products that are to be manufactured. That list also notes where and when each product will be made.
The production schedule is very detailed and includes everything from raw materials to logistics and what processes will be used to run a smooth production line. Managers will also explore potential bottlenecks so they can avoid issues. The production schedule is reviewed throughout the manufacturing process and revised as needed to keep production running on time.

3. What Should Be Included In a Production Schedule?
When creating a production schedule these elements must be included to help the project be delivered on time: forecasted production volume, production timeline, lead times, resource requirements, production tasks and processes and estimated project costs. Let’s review each of these.
3.1 Forecasted Production Volume
This refers to the anticipated quantity of products or services that will be produced within a specific time. This metric is essential for planning and resource allocation to ensure production meets demand. It includes quantitative estimates, demand analysis, production capacity, schedule alignment and adjusting as necessary when monitoring and reviewing production.
3.2 Production Timeline
This detailed schedule outlines the sequences of tasks and milestones required to complete a project within a specified time. This roadmap helps teams understand what needs to be done and when it has to be completed. To do this, tasks have start and end dates, milestones are added to define important dates and help monitor progress.
3.3 Lead Times
Lead time in a production schedule can refer to a few different things. For example, there is procurement lead times, which refers to the time required to acquire materials or equipment. Production lead time is the time needed for each step in the production process. Finally, delivery lead times are the time needed to ship the finished product or deliver services.
3.4 Resource Requirements
When referring to resource requirements in a production schedule, this means anything that is needed to execute the tasks. Therefore, resource requirements run the gamut from materials, such as raw materials or inputs required for production, personnel, equipment and machinery to the budget.
3.5 Production Tasks & Processes
This encompasses all the activities and steps required to complete the project. Each step in the production process must be broken down into tasks and the sequence of those tasks defined. It can also include material sourcing, supplier coordination, equipment setup, workflow planning and more.
3.6 Estimated Production Costs
Ensure that all production costs are covered, including direct material costs, such as raw materials, direct labor costs, as in wages and manufacturing overhead costs that range from utilities, maintenance and other factory-related expenses. There are also variable costs that fluctuate with production volume and fixed costs that are constant.
4. How to Make a Production Schedule
Production schedules vary from one organization to another depending on the production scheduling tools you use, the level of detail you’d like to include and the specific characteristics of your manufacturing process. Having said that, here are five general steps any organization should follow when making a production schedule.
4. 1. Estimate Customer Demand
Before you make a realistic production schedule, you’ll need to forecast the future customer demand for your product so you have a better idea of the ideal production volume your organization should manufacture to ensure there’s enough product supply for fulfilling customer orders.
Various demand planning techniques and business analytics tools can make an accurate sales forecast for your business. Sales forecasts can be made for various time frames such as quarterly, monthly or yearly.
4.2. Measure Your Production Capacity
Once you’ve created a sales forecast, you’ll then need to measure your production capacity, which refers to the organizational resources such as raw materials, labor and capital assets that your organization uses to manufacture goods and evaluate whether there are enough resources to meet customer demand and manufacture products on time.
If this isn’t the case, you should invest in your manufacturing facilities to expand your production capacity. If that’s not possible, try production optimization techniques such as re-thinking your shop floor or balancing the workload of assembly line stations.
4.3. Make a Production Budget
Based on your sales forecast and production capacity, you can now make a production budget, which is a document that allows you to estimate the ideal number of units that should be produced to meet customer demand and also maintain optimal product stock inventory levels.
4.4. Optimize Production Routing
Production routing consists of defining the route that materials, parts and components will take across the production floor as they’re transformed into final products by production workers. The main objective of the production routing process is to identify the most efficient route in terms of time, effort and cost. By defining the production route, you can also accurately measure how long it’ll take to make your products.
4.5. Schedule Production Activities
At this point, you should clearly understand the quantity of product that needs to be manufactured, how much it’ll cost and how long it’ll take. Now, you’re finally ready to schedule production orders to meet the production budget you’ve defined.

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
Manufacturing scheduling is the process of optimizing the utilization of all available manufacturing resources including staffing, machinery, inventories, work-in-process (WIP), and the associated manufacturing processes to produce sales orders and maximize production efficiency.
An effective manufacturing schedule is critical to manufacturing operations because it improves throughput, reduces changeovers, reduces machine downtime, improves resource utilization, increases due date adherence, and minimizes the scheduling time itself.


